SATMC: README
=============

SATMC (SAT-based Model Checker) is an open and flexible platform for
model-checking security protocols via reduction to SAT.  SATMC builds
a propositional formula encoding a bounded unrolling of the transition
relation specified by either the IF or SATE specification, the initial
state and the set of states representing a violation of the security
properties.  (The SAT compilation of IF specifications results from
the combination of a reduction of security problems to planning
problems---expressed in the SATE language---and SAT-encoding
techniques developed for planning.)  The propositional formula is then
fed to a state-of-the-art SAT solver and any model found is translated
back into an attack.

SATMC is currently interfaced with the sat solvers zchaff (you can get
it at the URL http://www.ee.princeton.edu/~chaff/zchaff.html), mChaff
(you can get it at the URL
http://www.ee.princeton.edu/~chaff/mchaff.html), SIM (you can get it
at http://www.star.dist.unige.it/~sim/sim. Note that the version of
the interfaced SIM has been modified by its staff for returning the
assignment relative to the propositional formula.)  and SATO v3.0 (you
can get it at http://www.cs.uiowa.edu/~hzhang/sato).


===========
0. CONTENTS
===========
 1. Running
 2. Mailing list
 3. Authors, contributors, and contact


==========
1. RUNNING
==========

You can execute SATMC to issue at the shell prompt:

  "satmc OPTION"
  "satmc FILE [OPTIONS]" 

where:

* OPTION:
  -h,  --help       display this help and exit.
  -v,  --version    output version information and exit.

* OPTIONS:

  --solver=SOLVER		: SOLVER is the selected state-of-the-art 
				  SAT solver you want to use to
				  evaluate the satisfiability of the
				  generated propositional formula.
				  Accepted value are:
	                            'chaff'    : zChaff  solver selected;
	                            'mchaff'   : mChaff  solver selected;
		                    'sim'      : SIM solver selected; 
		                    'sato'     : SATO solver selected.
				  Default value of SOLVER is 'chaff';

  --max=MAX        		: MAX is the maximum depth of the 
				  search space up to which SATMC will
				  explore; it can be set to -1 meaning
				  infinite, but in this case the
				  procedure is not guaranteed to
				  terminate; by default it is set to
				  30;

  --enc=ENC	 		: ENC is the selected SAT reduction 
				  encoding technique; it can be set to
				  either:
				  - 'linear',	
				  - 'gp-efa' (default value), or 
				  - 'gp-bca'; 
                                  'linear' and 'gp-bca' cannot be applied
	                          on IF v.2 specifications; 

  --mutex=MUTEX	 		: MUTEX is an integer indicating the 
                                  level of the mutex relations to be
                                  used during the SAT-reduction,
                                  namely:
				  0: mutex off (absRef on)
				  1: only static mutex (absRef off)
				  2: static and dynamic mutex (absRef
				     off); value accepted only when
				     the encoding is set to gp-bca
                                  Basically, if MUTEX is set to 0,
                                  then the abstraction/refinement
                                  strategy provided by SATMC is
                                  enabled; otherwise the
                                  abstraction/refinement strategy is
                                  disabled and the static mutexes are
                                  generated; moreover if --mutex=2 and
                                  --enc=gp-bca, then also the dynamic
                                  mutexes are generated; default value
                                  is 1;

  --ct=CT			: CT is a boolean parameter for 
				  enabling or disabling compound
				  types; by default it is set to true;

  --oi=OI			: OI is a boolean parameter for 
				  enabling or disabling the optimized
				  intruder model (i.e.the intruder is
				  able to extend immediately its
				  knowledge); by default it is set to
				  false;

  --sc=SC			: SC is a boolean parameter for 
				  enabling or disabling the
                                  step-compression optimization; by
                                  default it is set to true;
				  
  --check_only_executability=CE : CE is a boolean parameter for 
				  enabling or disabling the check on
				  executability of actions/rules
				  without any intruder. It is very
				  useful to debug the input
				  specification; by default it is set
				  to false;

  --output_dir=ODIR		: ODIR is the directory in which SATMC 
				  will store temporary files and put
				  the results of the analyses; (by
				  default and in the case the input
				  file is in the SATE language, these
				  files will be put in the same
				  directory in which FILE is
				  contained.)

  --if2sate=IF2SATE		: IF2SATE is the version of the 
				  compiler used for translating a IF
				  specification into a SATE
				  specification; it can be set either
				  to 1 or 2 (default value);
                                  the AVISPA tool uses IF v.2 
                                  specifications;  

  --prelude=PRELUDE		: PRELUDE is the prelude file 
				  (comprehensive of the path); by
				  default it is assumed that the
				  prelude file is in the same
				  directory of FILE with the name
				  'prelude.if';

  --avispa=AVISPA 		: AVISPA is a boolean parameter for 
				  enabling or disabling the AVISPA
				  output format; by default it is set
				  to true; for more details on the EU
				  project AVISPA see
				  http://www.avispa-project.org;

* FILE is either the IF or the SATE file (comprehensive of the path)
  you want to compile into SAT and analyze.


===============
2. MAILING LIST
===============

You can use two mailing list:

satmc-support@ai.dist.unige.it   - to send messages to the SATMC team
satmc-users@ai.dist.unige.it     - to exchange messages with other SATMC 
				   users

=====================================
3. AUTHORS, CONTRIBUTORS, AND CONTACT
=====================================

Written by: Alessandro Armando              and Luca Compagna
email:      armando@dist.unige.it           and compa@dist.unige.it
URL:        www.ai.dist.unige.it/armando    and www.ai.dist.unige.it/compagna

Address:    DIST -- Universita' degli Studi di Genova
            Viale Causa 13
            16145 Genova 
            ITALIA

Contributors: Pierre Ganty
              Cristina Fra`
              Jacopo Mantovani
	      Roberto Carbone

Project:      AVISPA - Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols 
		       and Applications

Project URLs: http://www.ai.dist.unige.it/satmc/
	      http://www.avispa-project.org/	

Send bug-reports and/or questions to: satmc-support@ai.dist.unige.it


